Arabic:
- ٢٥٠ -

(فصل) لما توفي شيخي أبو عبد الله السبتي وجرده الغاسل من ثيابه وجدت في مرقعه رقعة مطبقة فأخذتها وواريتها التراب، فتحت تلك الرقعة فوجدت فيها أسماء شريفة، عجلة، ولا حول ولا قوة إلا بالله العلي العظيم، وصلى الله على سيدنا محمد وآله وصحبه وسلم. كنت قد طلبتها منه في حال حياته فامتنع، ثم قال لي: يا أحمد لا تأخذ على خاطرك شيئاً، وستصل إليها من غير تعب ولا مشقة. فلما نظرت إليها في تلك الساعة افتكرت كلام الشيخ فترحمت عليه، وقلت في نفسي: هذه أنفاس الرجال الصالحين مع الله، وكان لسان حاله يقول لي: بعد موتي تصل إليها بلا سؤال ولا تعب. فتأملتها تأملاً شافياً، فإذا فيها يقول: اعلم يا أخي أن من وقعت في يده هذه الأسماء العظيمة فليصنها عن غير أهلها؛ لأنها نزلت مع آدم عليه السلام، وجعل كل يوم ينظر إليها ويقول: سبحانك ما أعظم شأنك وأعز سلطانك. ويذكر من خواصها شيئاً كثيراً لو أطلعتك عليه لمشيت على الماء به ولم تبتل قدماك.
ولو

English:
- 250 -

(Section) When my shaykh Abu عبد الله al-Sabti died and the washer stripped him of his clothes, I found in his patched garment a folded slip, so I took it and buried it in the earth. I opened that slip and found in it noble names, عجلة, and there is no power and no strength except in God, the High, the عظیم, and may God bless our master Muhammad and his family and his companions and grant them peace. I had asked him for them during his lifetime, but he refused, then he said to me: O Ahmad, do not take anything to heart, and you will reach them without toil and without hardship. So when I looked at them at that hour, I remembered the shaykh’s words and asked mercy for him, and I said to myself: these are the breaths of the righteous men with God, and the tongue of his state was saying to me: after my death you will reach them without asking and without toil. So I contemplated them a sufficient contemplation, and in them he says: know, my brother, that whoever has fallen into his hand these great names, let him guard them from those not أهلها; because they descended with Adam, peace be upon him, and he made it so that every day he would look at them and say: Glory be to You, how great is Your شأن and how mighty is Your authority. And he mentions from their properties many things; if I were to inform you of them, you would walk upon the water by means of them and your feet would not become wet.
And if

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
