Arabic:
- ٢٤١ -

قوله تعالى: {رَبَّنَا عَلَيْكَ تَوَكَّلْنَا وَإِلَيْكَ أَنَبْنَا وَإِلَيْكَ الْمَصِيرُ * رَبَّنَا لَا تَجْعَلْنَا فِتْنَةً لِّلَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا وَاغْفِرْ لَنَا رَبَّنَا إِنَّكَ أَنتَ الْعَزِيزُ الْحَكِيمُ} هذه الآية إذا رُسمت في خاتم من حديد وألقاه أحد في بيته فإن الله تعالى ينصره ويؤيده ويعزه ولو كان ذليلاً، ويعلمه علم ما لم يكن، ويأتيه رزقه رغداً من عند الله تعالى، ويكون له نصراً ومعيناً؛ لأن فيه اسم التوكل والعزة والحكم لله، والله يهدي من يشاء إلى صراط مستقيم، وهذه صورة وضعه كما ترى فافهم.

قوله تعالى: {فَقُلْتُ اسْتَغْفِرُوا رَبَّكُمْ إِنَّهُ كَانَ غَفَّارًا * يُرْسِلِ السَّمَاءَ عَلَيْكُم مِّدْرَارًا * وَيُمْدِدْكُم بِأَمْوَالٍ وَبَنِينَ وَيَجْعَل لَّكُمْ جَنَّاتٍ وَيَجْعَل لَّكُمْ أَنْهَارًا} هذه الآية للزيادة لك في الرزق ونمو التجارة وكثرة الربح، فمن رسمها في خاتم من فضة بيضاء وألقاه في أصبعه فإنه يسهل الله عليه رزقه، وهو من الأمور العجيبة لأنه أمر لا يقدر على وضعه أحد لما فيه من البركات والخيرات الوافرات بعون الله تعالى، وهذه صورته.

قوله تعالى: {إِنَّ رَبَّكَ يَعْلَمُ أَنَّكَ تَقُومُ أَدْنَىٰ مِن ثُلُثَيِ اللَّيْلِ وَنِصْفَهُ وَثُلُثَهُ وَطَائِفَةٌ مِّنَ الَّذِينَ مَعَكَ وَاللَّهُ يُقَدِّرُ اللَّيْلَ وَالنَّهَارَ عَلِمَ أَن لَّن تُحْصُوهُ فَتَابَ عَلَيْكُمْ} هذه الآية الشريفة لمن أراد الزيادة في العبادة والأنابة إلى الله تعالى، فإذا أراد ذلك فليأخذ طشتين من النحاس الأحمر ويرسم فيه الآية الشريفة يوم الجمعة والناس في الصلاة، وقل: فتاب الله على فلان، واغسله بالماء القراح واقرأ عليه مائة مرة واشرب به ثلاث مرات إذا أراد النوم، فإن الله يهدي صاحب الاسم للعمل الصالح ويقربه إلى أفعال العبادة والطاعة بحول الله وقوته، وهذه صورة وضعه كما ترى (عوض إن نقش نقش يس است). قوله تعالى: {إِذَا جَاءَ نَصْرُ اللَّهِ وَالْفَتْحُ * وَرَأَيْتَ النَّاسَ يَدْخُلُونَ فِي دِينِ اللَّهِ أَفْوَاجًا * فَسَبِّحْ بِحَمْدِ رَبِّكَ وَاسْتَغْفِرْهُ إِنَّهُ كَانَ تَوَّابًا} من كتب

١٦ - شمس المعارف - ثاني

English:
- 241 -

His saying تعالى: {Our Lord, upon You we have relied, and to You we have turned, and to You is the destination. Our Lord, do not make us a trial for those who disbelieve, and forgive us. Our Lord, indeed You are the Mighty, the Wise.} This verse, if it is drawn in a ring of iron and someone throws it in his house, then Allah تعالى will grant him victory, support him, and honor him, even if he were abased, and He will teach him the knowledge of what was not, and his provision will come to him abundantly from Allah تعالى, and it will be for him a victory and a helper; because in it is the name of reliance and might, and judgment belongs to Allah, and Allah guides whom He wills to a straight path. And this is a picture of its placement as you see, so understand.

His saying تعالى: {Then I said, Seek forgiveness of your Lord; indeed He is ever Forgiving. He will send the sky upon you in abundant rain, and He will supply you with wealth and sons, and make for you gardens, and make for you rivers.} This verse is for increase for you in provision and growth of trade and abundance of profit. Whoever draws it in a ring of white silver and throws it on his finger, Allah will make his provision easy for him. And it is among the wondrous matters, because it is a matter that no one is able to place because of what is in it of blessings and abundant good things, by the help of Allah تعالى. And this is its form.

His saying تعالى: {Indeed your Lord knows that you stand less than two-thirds of the night and half of it and a third of it, and a group of those with you, and Allah measures the night and the day. He knew that you would not be able to keep count of it, so He turned to you in forgiveness.} This noble verse is for whoever desires increase in worship and turning back to Allah تعالى. So if he desires that, let him take two basins of red copper and draw in them the noble verse on Friday while the people are in prayer, and say: So Allah turned in forgiveness to so-and-so, and wash it with pure water and recite over it one hundred times and drink from it three times when he wishes to sleep, for Allah guides the possessor of the name to righteous action and brings him near to acts of worship and obedience by the might and power of Allah. And this is a picture of its placement as you see (instead of “engraving,” engrave YS). His saying تعالى: {When the help of Allah and the victory come, and you see the people entering into the religion of Allah in crowds, then glorify with the praise of your Lord and seek His forgiveness; indeed He is ever Accepting of repentance.} Whoever wrote

16 - Shams al-Ma‘arif - Second

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
