Arabic:
— ٣٨٨ —

وَأَنْتَ تَرُشُّ عَلَى الزُّهْرَةِ وَهِيَ دَائِرَةٌ قَلِيلًا وَأَنْتَ تَسُوطُهَا تَنْزِلُ الْأَوْقِيَةُ ٤ دَرَاهِمَ
(فَصْلٌ) فِي ذِكْرِ الْعَقَاقِيرِ وَهِيَ ٣ أَنْوَاعٍ تُرَابِيَّةٍ وَنَبَاتِيَّةٍ وَحَيَوَانِيَّةٍ فَالْتُرَابِيَّةُ ٦ أَنْوَاعٍ أَرْوَاحٍ وَأَجْسَادٍ
وَأَحْجَارٍ وَزَاجَاتٍ وَأَمْلَاحٍ وَبَوَارِقَ فَالْأَرْوَاحُ ٤ الزِّئْبِقُ وَالنَّشَادِرُ وَالْكِبْرِيتُ وَالزَّرْنِيخُ وَالْأَجْسَادُ
٧ الذَّهَبُ وَالْفِضَّةُ وَالنُّحَاسُ وَالْحَدِيدُ وَالرَّصَاصُ وَالْقَصْدِيرُ وَالْخَاصِّينَ مِنَ الْأَحْجَارِ ١٦ الْمَرْقَشِيثَا
وَالْمَغْنِيسَا وَالرَّوْضُ وَاللَّازَوَرْدُ وَالرَّهَنْجُ وَالدِّيزَوَرْجُ وَالشَّاذَنْجُ وَالشَّكُّ وَالْكُحْلُ وَالطَّلْقُ وَالْحِبْسُ
وَالزَّاجُ وَالزَّاجَاتُ وَالْقَلْقَنْدُ وَالْقَلْقَطَارُ وَالسُّورِيُّ وَالْبَوَارِقُ ٦ بُورَقُ الْحِبْرِيِّ وَبُورَقُ الصَّاغَةِ
وَالتِّسْكَارُ وَالْبُورَقُ الْأَحْمَرُ وَبُورَقُ الرَّاوَنْدِ وَبُورَقُ الْغَرْبِ ٤ لَأَمْلَاحُ ١١ الْمِلْحُ الطِّيبُ وَالْمُرُّ
وَالطَّرْزَدُ وَالْأَنْدَرَانِيُّ وَالنِّفْطِيُّ وَالْهِنْدِيُّ وَالْعَيْنِيُّ وَمِلْحُ الرَّمَادِ فِيهِمْ طَبِيعِيَّاتٌ مَصْنُوعَاتٌ مَعْرُوفَةٌ
أَلْوَانُهَا وَأَجْوَدُهَا أَرْوَاحُ الزِّئْبِقِ الَّذِي يَكُونُ رَقِيقًا أَبْيَضَ إِذَا عَصَرْتَهُ بِحُرْقَةٍ لَمْ يَبْقَ فِيهِ شَيْءٌ مِثْلُ
الْكُحْلِ (النَّشَادِرُ) نَوْعَانِ أَحَدُهُمَا مَعْدَنِيٌّ قِطَاعُ طَرْزَدِ مِلْحٍ حُرٍّ يُعْمَلُ مِنْ سَمَرْقَنْدَ
وَمِنْهُ أَصْفَرُ لَا بُدَّ خَلَلٌ فِي الصَّنْعَةِ وَهُوَ نَشَادِرُ الْعَذَرَةِ فَإِذَا دَرَّتْهُ وَذَوَّبْتَهُ تَذُوبُ بِهَا الْأَحْبَابُ الزَّرْنِيخُ ٦
أَحْمَرُ مَعْدُومٌ وَأَصْفَرُ مُصْمَتٌ كَالْسَنْدَرُوسِ جَرَى صَلْبٌ وَآخَرُ صَافِي عَجِيبٌ مُتَّسِعُ الصُّفْرَةِ وَأَبْيَضُ
عَاجِيٌّ وَأَبْيَضُ مَخْلُوطٌ بِأَتْرَابٍ لَا يَصْلُحُ وَأَسْوَدُ مُخْتَلِطٌ بِأَحْصَى (الْمَرْقَشِيثَا) ٤ أَبْيَضُ فَضِّيٌّ وَأَحْمَرُ
نُحَاسِيٌّ وَأَسْوَدُ حَدِيدِيٌّ وَأَصْفَرُ ذَهَبِيُّ (الْمَغْنِيسَا) أَلْوَانُ تُرَابِيَّةٌ سَوْدَاءُ وَمِنْهَا لَهَا عُيُونٌ لَهَا بَصِيصٌ
وَمِنْهَا قِطَعٌ صَلْبَةٌ حَدِيدِيَّةٌ وَهُوَ ذَكَرٌ وَمِنْهَا أَجْرَدُ هَشِيٌّ أُنْثَى فِيهَا عُيُونٌ تَبْرِقُ وَهُوَ أَجْوَدُ (الرَّوْضُ)
نَوْعَانِ اصْطَخْرِيُّ وَمَاءُ الْحَدِيدِ (التُّوتِيَا) أَلْوَانٌ كَثِيرَةٌ مِنْهَا أَخْضَرُ قِطَاعٌ وَأَصْفَرُ خَزَفِيٌّ وَمَحْمُودِيٌّ
وَأَخْضَرُ كِرْمَانِيٌّ وَقُشُورِيٌّ وَأَبْيضُ قِشْرٍ وَزَرْقَا وَهِنْدِيُّ (الرَّهَنْجُ) هُوَ حَجَرٌ أَخْضَرُ وَفِيهِ عُرُوقٌ
تُخَطُّ فِيهِ الْفُصُوصُ وَالْخَرَزُ وَمِنْهُ جَدِيدٌ وَعَتِيقٌ وَمِصْرِيٌّ وَكِرْمَانِيٌّ وَخُرَاسَانِيُّ وَالْكِرْمَانِيُّ
الْعَتِيقُ أَجْوَدُ وَاللَّازَوَرْدُ نَوْعٌ وَاحِدٌ وَهُوَ حَجَرٌ تَجِدُ فِيهِ حُمْرَةً وَعُيُونًا بَرَّاقَةً * وَالْفِيرُوزَجُ نَوْعٌ
وَاحِدٌ وَهُوَ حَجَرٌ فِيهِ حُمْرَةٌ وَعُيُونٌ رَاقَةٌ أَخْضَرُ ذَهَبِيًّا (الشَّاذَنْجُ) أَحْجَارٌ ذَهَبِيَّةٌ وَحُمْرُ الذَّهَبِ
وَتَلُونُهُ لِأَنَّهَا مِنْ جَوَاهِرِ النُّحَاسِ (الشَّكُّ) نَوْعَانِ أَبْيَضُ وَأَصْفَرُ يُؤْتَى بِهِمَا مِنْ مَعَادِنِ الْفِضَّةِ أَبْيَضُ
(وَالْكُحْلُ) نَوْعَانِ مُصْمَتٌ زُجَاجِيٌّ وَمُحِبُّ أَصْفَهَانِيُّ (الطَّلْقُ) أَنْوَاعٌ يَمَانِيٌّ وَبَحْرِيٌّ وَجَبَلِيٌّ
وَيَتَصَفَّحُ إِذَا انْدَقَّ وَلَهُ بَصِيصٌ وَأَجْوَدُهُ الْيَمَانِيُّ ثُمَّ الْبَحْرِيُّ الْأَبْيَضُ الْمُخْتَلِطُ بِالْمَعْدِنِ الْأَحْمَرِ (الرُّجَاجُ
أَنْوَاعٌ) تَتَّخِذُ مِنَ الرَّمْلِ وَأَقَلُّهُ أَجْوَدُهُ الشَّامِيُّ الْأَبْيَضُ الَّذِي يُحَاكِي الْبَلُّورَ فِي صَفَاءِ الزُّجَاجَاتِ
مِنْهَا أَصْفَرُ صَلْبٌ وَمِنْهَا أَصْفَرُ فِيهِ عُيُونٌ ذَهَبِيَّةٌ تَسْتَعْمِلُهُ الْأَسَاكِفَةُ وَالصَّاغُونَ وَمِنْهُ أَصْفَرُ قِطَعٌ
يُشْبِهُ قِطَعَ النِّيلَةِ الْعَجَمِيِّ فِي الصُّفْرِ لَافِي اللَّوْنِ وَهُوَ أَجْوَدُ (الشَّبُّ) أَنْوَاعٌ مِنْهَا أَبْيضُ يَمَانِيٌّ خُطُوطٌ
وَالطَّرْزَدِيُّ وَمِنْهَا الشَّامِيُّ الْأَبْيضُ الْمُخْتَلِطُ بِالْطَّيْنِ وَلَحَجَرِ الَّتِي تَشُوبُهُ حُمْرَةٌ وَمِنْهَا الْمِصْرِيُّ الدَّسِمُ
الْأَصْفَرُ وَهُوَ اللَّيِّنُ وَالْكِرْمَانِيُّ اللَّيِّنُ وَهُوَ أَدْسَمُهُمْ لِلْيَضِ الثَّابِتِ (الْقَلْقَنْدُ) زَاجٌ أَبْيَضُ
وَالْقَلْقَدُسُ زَاجٌ أَخْضَرُ (الْقَلْقَطَارُ) زَاجٌ أَصْفَرُ (السُّورِيُّ) زَاجٌ أَحْمَرُ وَهَذِهِ الْأَرْبَعَةُ عَزِيزَةٌ
الْوُجُودِ وَأَعَزُّهَا السُّورِيُّ وَهُوَ يَدْخُلُ فِي بَابِ الْحُمْرَةِ وَتَحْمِلُ مِنْ مَعَادِنِ قَبْرَصَ وَأَصْلُهَا زَاجَاتٌ
وَشُوبٌ وَيَغْسِلُهَا السَّيْلُ وَيُنَزِّهُهَا الْحَفْرُ فَتَنْزِلُ عَلَيْهَا الشَّمْسُ تَعْقِدُهَا وَقَدْ تَتَّخِذُ الْحُكَمَاءُ إِذَا
أَعُوزَهُمْ

English:
— 388 —

And you sprinkle upon the Venus while it is revolving a little, and you stir it; the ounce descends, 4 dirhams.
(Chapter) in mention of the drugs, and they are 3 kinds: earthy, plant, and animal. As for the earthy, 6 kinds: spirits, bodies,
stones, zājāt, salts, and bāwariq. As for the spirits: 4, mercury, sal ammoniac, sulfur, and orpiment. And the bodies:
7, gold, silver, copper, iron, lead, tin. And the special ones among the stones: 16, marcasite
and magnesa and rawḍ and lapis lazuli and rahanj and dīzawraj and shādhanj and shak and kohl and talc and ḥibs
and zāj and zājāt and qalqand and qalqatar and Syrian. And the bāwariq: 6, ink borax and borax of the goldsmiths
and tiskār and red borax and borax of rāwand and borax of the west. And the salts: 11, the good salt and the bitter
and tarzad and andarāni and niftī and hindī and ‘aynī and salt of ashes. Among them are natural things, manufactured things, known
by their colors. And the best of them are the spirits of mercury, which is thin, white; if you squeeze it with burning, nothing remains in it, like
kohl. (Sal ammoniac) is of two kinds, one of them mineral, a section of tarzad, free salt, made from Samarkand,
and from it a yellow one; there must be a defect in the manufacture, and it is sal ammoniac of excrement. If you grind it and dissolve it, the beloveds dissolve by it. Orpiment: 6
red, nonexistent, and yellow, solid, like sandarūs; one is hard and another is pure, wondrous, broad in yellowness, and white
ivory, and white mixed with earths, not fit, and black mixed with pebbles. (Marcasite) 4: white, silvery, and red,
coppery, and black, iron-like, and yellow, golden. (Magnesa) earthy colors, black, and among them are those that have eyes with a gleam,
and among them are hard iron-like pieces, and it is male; and among them is hairless, brittle female, in which are eyes that flash, and it is the best. (Rawḍ)
two kinds: stony and water of iron (tūtīyā). Many colors: among them green, section, and yellow, ceramic, and maḥmūdī,
and green kirmānī, and crusty, and white of crust, and blue, and hindī. (Rahanj) it is a green stone, and in it are veins
in which jewels and beads are drawn. And from it are new and old, Egyptian and Kirmānī and Khurāsānī, and the Kirmānī
old is the best. And lapis lazuli is one kind, and it is a stone in which you find redness and sparkling eyes. * And turquoise is one
kind, and it is a stone in which is redness and eyes, smooth, green-golden. (Shādhanj) golden stones and the red of gold,
and its coloring, because they are among the jewels of copper. (Shak) two kinds, white and yellow; both are brought from the mines of silver, white.
(Kohl) two kinds: solid, glassy, and muḥibb Isfahānī. (Talc) kinds: Yemeni, sea, and mountain,
and it flakes when it is crushed, and it has a gleam; and its best is the Yemeni, then the sea, the white mixed with the red mineral. (Rujāj
kinds) are taken from sand, and the least of it, its best, is the white Syrian, which imitates crystal in the clarity of the glassy substances.
Among them is a hard yellow, and among them is a yellow in which are golden eyes; the smiths and goldsmiths use it. And among it is yellow pieces
resembling pieces of Indian indigo in yellowness, not in color, and it is the best. (Alum) kinds: among them is white Yemeni, striped,
and the tarzadī; and among them is the Syrian, the white mixed with clay and with stone, in which redness is mixed; and among them is the Egyptian, fatty,
yellow, and it is the soft one; and the Kirmānī, soft, and it is the fattest of them for the fixed whiteness. (Qalqand) white zāj,
and qalqadus is green zāj. (Qalqatar) yellow zāj. (Syrian) red zāj. And these four are rare
in existence, and the rarest of them is the Syrian, and it enters into the باب of redness, and is carried from the mines of Cyprus, and its origin is zājāt
and impurities, and the flood washes them and the digging purifies them, then the sun descends upon them and binds them. And the sages may take, if
it is lacking to them

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
