Arabic:
- ٣٥٢ -

حروفاً بلغت ٣٤ ضربت في مثلها خرج ٣٠٦ فنطقتاه فكان وترائيل وهو ظاهر في العلويات
وأما باطن ذلك فقلنا أصل العدد ٢٠ ضربناه فخرج ٦٠ فنطقتاه فكان لسائيل رجعنا إلى الاصل
من غير استنطاق وجدنا رسائيل فاعلم ذلك
(فصل في حرف اللام) وعدده ٣٠ وبسطه لام وتكسيره ل ا م ا ل ف م ى م و بسطهم ١٨١
حرفاً طرحنا الاس فكان المستنطق القائيل ثم نظرنا إلى باطن ذلك فكان الظاهر ص فنطقتا
ذلك الملك صيائيل ثم رجعنا إلى الاصل فكان اقنيائيل فاعلم ذلك
(فصل في حرف الميم) وعدده ٤٠ وبسطها م ي م بسطناها وكسرناها بلغت ٣٩ حرفاً ضربت
في مثلها خرج ٣٨١ طرحنا الاس ونطقنا الكعب بلغ ٣٤١ فنطقتاها اليا ئيل وهذا ظاهر في العلويات
ثم جئنا إلى باطن ذلك وضربناه في باطن العدد خرج فكى فزدناه ايل فكان فكيائيل رجعنا
إلى أصل العدد فكان طيفائيل وهذا ظاهر في الاستنطاق
(فصل في حرف النون) وعدده ٥٠ وبسطها نون فبسطناها وكسرناها بلغت ٥٣ ضربت في
مثلها خرج ٤٢٥ طرحنا الاس بقي ٣٧٥ نطقت هقائيل فكان هذا ظاهر في الاستنطاق في العلويات
تضرب في باطن الحروف الاصلية تبلغ ١٠٠ فنطقتاها فكانت تقيائيل رجعنا إلى العدد الاول
فكان ميكائيل وهذا ظاهر في العلويات
(فصل في حرف السين) وعدده ٦٠ وبسطه س ي ن وتكسيره ٣٩ حرفاً ضربت في نفسها
بلغت ٣٠٩ طرحنا الاس ١٥٨ ونطقتاه فكان طيسائيل وهذا ظاهر في العلويات واما باطن
ذلك فضربناه في أصل العدد فخرج ققيائيل فكان ظاهرا في العلويات وهذا العدد الاصلي والملك
الموكل به ضيائيل
(فصل في حرف العين) وعدده ٧٠ ؛ بسطه ع ي ن وتكسيره ٣٤ ضربناه طرحنا الاس
فكان الملك ومرائيل خادم هذا الحرف في ظاهر العلويات وأما باطن ذلك فعدد العين سبعون
ضربت في أعداد حروفها الاصلية وهي ثلاثة خرج ٣٧٠ فنطقت عريائيل رجعنا إلى العدد الاول
فكان اسم الملك ولسائل
(فصل في حرف الهاء) وعدده ٨٠ وبسطها وتكسيرها ف ا ل ف بلغت ٣٦ فنطقتاها بعد
الاس فكان وقعيائيل وهذا ظاهر الاستنطاق في العلويات وأما باطن ذلك جئنا إلى اصل العدد
وضربناه في ثلاثة خرج وسق فنطقتاه وسقيائيل ثم جئنا بالعدد الاول فنطقتاه فخرج ولرائيل
فكان كل ملك من هؤلاء له قوة قهرية وأسماء عجيبة فافهم ذلك
(فصل في حرف الصاد) وعدده ٩٠ وبسطه وتكسيره ٤٢ ضربناها في مثلها خرج ٤٠٤
فكان الكعب الحرفي دست طرحنا الاس فكان دسا ئيل وهو الملك المتصرف في ظاهر الحروف
في العلويات والتصرف في باطن العلويات المستخرج من أصل الحرف وهو اذا ضربت في أصل العدد
الحروف الخارجة كان ٢٦ فنطقت عرميائيل والثالث المأخوذ من الاصل الاول دميائيل فكان لكل
عالم من هذه العوالم قوة قهرية

(فصل

English:
- 352 -

Letters whose total reached 34, multiplied by the like of it, there came out 306; so we pronounced them, and it was Watrā’īl, and this is apparent in the upper worlds.
As for the inward of that, we said: the root of the number is 20; we multiplied it, and there came out 60; so we pronounced them, and it was Lasā’īl. We returned to the root without pronunciation and found Rasā’īl; so know that.
(Chapter on the letter Lām) Its number is 30, and its expansion is Lām, and its breaking-up is l a m a l f m ى m w; their expansion is 181 letters. We removed the root, and the pronounced one was al-Qā’il. Then we looked into the inward of that, and the apparent was Ṣ; so we pronounced that king, Ṣiyā’īl. Then we returned to the root, and it was Aqniyā’īl; so know that.
(Chapter on the letter Mīm) Its number is 40, and its expansion is m y m. We expanded it and broke it up; it reached 39 letters. Multiplied by the like of it, there came out 381. We removed the root and pronounced the heel; it reached 341; so we pronounced them, aliyā’īl, and this is apparent in the upper worlds.
Then we came to the inward of that and multiplied it by the inward of the number; there came out Faky. So we added “īl,” and it was Fakiyā’īl. We returned to the root of the number, and it was Ṭayfā’īl, and this is apparent in pronunciation.
(Chapter on the letter Nūn) Its number is 50, and its expansion is Nūn. So we expanded it and broke it up; it reached 53. Multiplied by the like of it, there came out 425. We removed the root; 375 remained. It pronounced Haqā’īl, and this is apparent in pronunciation in the upper worlds.
It is multiplied by the inward of the original letters; it reaches 100, so we pronounced them, and it was Taqiyā’īl. We returned to the first number, and it was Mīkā’īl, and this is apparent in the upper worlds.
(Chapter on the letter Sīn) Its number is 60, and its expansion is s y n, and its breaking-up is 39 letters. Multiplied by itself, it reached 309. We removed the root, 158, and pronounced them, and it was Ṭaysā’īl, and this is apparent in the upper worlds. As for the inward of that, we multiplied it by the root of the number, and Qaqiyā’īl came out; it was apparent in the upper worlds. And this original number and the king appointed over it is Ḍiyā’īl.
(Chapter on the letter ʿAyn) Its number is 70; its expansion is ʿ y n, and its breaking-up is 34. We multiplied it; we removed the root, and the king was Wamrā’īl, servant of this letter in the ظاهر of the upper worlds. As for the inward of that, the number of ʿAyn is seventy; multiplied by the numbers of its original letters, which are three, there came out 370, and we pronounced ʿAryā’īl. We returned to the first number, and it was the name of the king, Wilsā’īl.
(Chapter on the letter Hā’) Its number is 80, and its expansion and breaking-up is f a l f; it reached 36. We pronounced them after the root, and it was Waqiyā’īl, and this is the apparent pronunciation in the upper worlds. As for the inward of that, we came to the root of the number and multiplied it by three; Wasaq came out, so we pronounced them, Wasaqiyā’īl. Then we came with the first number and pronounced them, and Wulrā’īl came out. So every king among these has a coercive power and wondrous names; understand that.
(Chapter on the letter Ṣād) Its number is 90, and its expansion and breaking-up is 42. We multiplied it by the like of it, and 404 came out. So the letter-heel was Dust. We removed the root, and it was Dasā’īl, and he is the king who տնօրposes in the ظاهر of the letters in the upper worlds, and the disposition in the inward of the upper worlds extracted from the root of the letter; and if you multiply the letters that come out by the root of the number, it was 26, so we pronounced ʿArmiyā’īl; and the third taken from the first root, Damiyā’īl. So for every world of these worlds there is a coercive power.

(Chapter

Notes:
[Grid content preserved as-is]

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
