Arabic:
— ١٦١ —

به صاحب الحمى الباردة ذهبت لوقتها وإذا نقش مربعه على رق والشمس في الأسد وحمله بعدد كره
٣١٧ مرة فلا يضع يده على ماء إلا غار بإذن الله تعالى بشرط أن يكون صاحب حال مع الله تعالى
ومن عرف قدره استغنى به عن كل ما سواه لأنه اسم الله تعالى الأعظم الذي إذا دعي به أجاب وإذا
سئل به أعطى ومن ثم كانت قواه الظاهرة تشير إلى قولك مجيب وهو أول الأسماء المظهرة والجامع
لحقائقها والمشتمل على دقائقها ورقائقها وله خمس جليل القدر من رسمه وحمله لم يعسر عليه أمر من
الأمور وبه تسهل الشدائد وهو ذكر أكابر الموحدين من أهل الخلوات ويصلح ذكراً لمن كان
اسمه محمداً فليكثر منه كره يقول الله الله لقوله صلى الله عليه وسلم الله ربي لا أشرك به شيئاً
ويصلح أيضاً لمن كان اسمه عبد الله وله من العدد ٩٩ لفظاً و ٩٩ رقماً وأما أسماء حروفه ٢٦
تشير إلى اسمين جليلين وها هي قديم وهذه صورته كما ترى
( فصل الثاني في اسمه تعالى رحمن ) هذا الاسم الشريف له
مربع ٥ × ٥ يوصف بسر التداخل في شرف زحل فصاحبه لا يزال
يتقلب في رضوان الله ولا يراه أحد إلا رق له وتوالت عليه النعم ومن
وضعه في ماء وسقى منه صاحب الحمى الحارة ذهبت عنه لوقتها ومن
أكثر من ذكره نظر الله له بعين الرحمة ويصلح ذكراً لمن كان اسمه عبد الرحمن ومن واظب على ذكره
كان ملطوفاً به في سائر أحواله وهذه صورته كما ترى
وروي عن الخضر عليه السلام أنه قال من صلى عصر الجمعة واستقبل
القبلة وقال يا رحمن إلى أن تغيب الشمس وسأل الله تعالى شيئاً إلا
أعطاه إياه وله من العدد ٩٩ وهو زوج فرد ناقص أجزاؤه ٣٧٠ تشير
إلى اسمه تعالى مبقٍ هذا من حيث رقمه وأما من حيث لفظه فله من العدد
٣٩ وهو عدد فرد ناقص أجزاؤه ٤٧ تشير إلى اسمه تعالى الإله وأما أسماء حروفه فهي ٤٩
تشير إلى اسمين جليلين وها هي مبدع فاطر
( الفصل الثالث في اسمه تعالى رحيم ) هذا الاسم الجليل القدر يوضع في مربع ٤ × ٤ بسر
التداخل فحامله يكون ملطوفاً به في سائر أحواله ومن أكثر من ذكره كان حجاب الدعوة وهو
أمان من سطوات الدهر ووقته اللائق به شرف القمر وهو نافع لجميع الحميات الحارة ويكتب معه
أيضاً وننزل من القرآن ما هو شفاء الآية ويصلح ذكراً لمن كان اسمه إبراهيم ويضاف إليه اسمه
المطهر وله من العدد ٢٥٨ وهو زوج فرد مستطيل مركب يثنى اللطيف ويثلث البديع ويسدس
الأول وهو عدد زائد أجزاؤه ٢١٩ تشير إلى اسمه الكريم وأما أسماء حروفه ٣١٣ تشير إلى
اسمه تعالى يا بصير يا هـ النداء وهذه صورتها

( ١١ - شمس المعارف - أول )

English:
with it, the one with the cold fever, it departs at its time. And if its square is inscribed on parchment, and the sun is in Leo, and he carries it with the number of its repetition 317 times, he does not put his hand on water except that it becomes abundant, by permission of Allah تعالى, on condition that he be a man of a state with Allah تعالى. And whoever knows its value becomes self-sufficient by it from everything besides it, because it is the Greatest Name of Allah تعالى, which, if supplicated by, answers, and if asked by, gives. And from this its outward powers indicated by your saying “Responsive,” and it is the first of the manifested names and the جامع of its realities and the one containing its subtleties and delicacies. And for it is five of great value; whoever draws it and carries it, no matter of the matters becomes difficult for him, and by it hardships become easy. And it is the ذكر of the greatest monotheists among the people of seclusion, and it is suitable as a ذكر for one whose name is Muhammad, so let him increase in it, saying “Allah, Allah,” because of his saying, may Allah bless him and grant him peace: “Allah is my Lord; I do not associate anything with Him.” And it is also suitable for one whose name is ‘Abd Allah. And for it is the number 99 in word and 99 in numeral. As for the names of its letters, 26 indicate two noble names, and here it is ancient, and this is its form as you see.

(Second Chapter on His تعالى name Rahman)

This noble name has a square 5 × 5, described with the secret of interpenetration in the honor of Saturn, so its companion does not cease turning in the pleasure of Allah, and no one sees him except that he becomes tender toward him and blessings continue upon him. And whoever places it in water and gives to drink from it the one with the hot fever, it departs from him at its time. And whoever increases in ذكره, Allah looks upon him with the eye of mercy. And it is suitable as a ذكر for one whose name is ‘Abd al-Rahman. And whoever persists in ذكره is treated with gentleness in all his states. And this is its form as you see.

And it was narrated from al-Khidr, عليه السلام, that he said: whoever prays the Friday afternoon prayer and faces the qibla and says “O Merciful” until the sun sets, and asks Allah تعالى for something, He gives it to him. And for it is the number 99, and it is an even-odd deficient composite whose parts are 370, indicating His تعالى name “the Remaining”; this is from the aspect of its numeral. As for from the aspect of its word, for it is the number 39, and it is an odd deficient number whose parts are 47, indicating His تعالى name “the God.” As for the names of its letters, they are 49, indicating two noble names, and here they are: Inventor, Originator.

(Third Chapter on His تعالى name Rahim)

This name of great value is placed in a square 4 × 4 by the secret of interpenetration, so its bearer is treated with gentleness in all his states. And whoever increases in ذكره, it is the veil of the supplication, and it is protection from the assaults of time, and its fitting time is the honor of the moon. And it is beneficial for all hot fevers, and there is written with it also: “And We send down from the Qur’an that which is a healing” [the verse]. And it is suitable as a ذكر for one whose name is Ibrahim, and his purified name is added to it. And for it is the number 258, and it is an even-odd elongated composite; the subtle is doubled, the wondrous is tripled, and the first is sextupled. And it is an increased number whose parts are 219, indicating His noble name. As for the names of its letters, 313 indicate His تعالى name “O Seeing, O h of the call.” And this is its form.

(11 - Shams al-Ma‘arif - First)

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
