Arabic:
- ١٧٠ -

على الغنى الأمن كان مالكه ومليكه لأهل ولايته وأما أسماء حروفه فهي ٣٣٨ تشير إلى
اسمين جليلين وهما إله رب وأما مربعه فهو هذا
(الفصل السادس والعشرون في اسمه تعالى مذل) هذا الاسم الجليل الشأن من
أكثر من ذكره أذل الله له ما شاء من أعدائه وينبغي أن يذكره كل من استصعب
عليه دابة أو أحد من الخلق فليكثر من ذكره فإن الله تعالى يذله له ومن اتخذه
ذكراً بعد صوم ثلاثة أيام آخرها الجمعة وأمسك يوم الجمعة عن الفطر وصلى
ركعتين وذكر الاسم مائة مرة بعد الفاتحة وإذا سجد فعل مثل ذلك وفي الركعة الثانية كذلك
ويسلم ويذكر الاسم بعد السلام ألف مرة ويقول يا مذل أذلل لي فلاناً فإنه يذل له ولا يخالفه في أمر
من الأمور (لطيفة) لما شاهد أهل البصائر بأصابع قلوبهم ذال الذل موضعه لام اللطف
والوصلة علموا أن لا وصلة إليه إلا بالذل فساووا الكلاب في الأكل من المزابل فتم لهم العز الذي
لا انقطاع له فتخلصوا من ورطة الذل لغيره حتى علموا إيماناً وشاهدوا إحساناً وعرفوا أنه لا مذل
إلا الله وله من العدد ٧٠٧ وهو زوج الزوج منه إلى الفرد في ب حاصل من ضرب مستطيل في
موضع وأجزاؤه ١٠٩٦ يشير إلى علو الواو وبالتسعين إلى الصمدانية الصاد وبالألف لغاية الغين ولما
كان الأول يتأتى فيه من عنده عناية الشخص أشار هذا العدد إلى هذه الحروف م غ ن و فالغين
والميم والنون من اسمه مخفى وحذفت الياء لما فيها من التنزيل فإنه من تنزل لأحد ذل وصار عوض
الياء الواو الدالة على الغنى الذي فيه من لوازمه الإذلال وأما أسماء حروفه فهي ٨٩٣ تشير إلى
اسمين جليلين وهما ذو القوة ماجد وأما مربعه فهو هذا
(الفصل السابع والعشرون في اسمه تعالى سميع) هذا الاسم يصلح
ذكراً آخر كل دعاء يستجاب الدعاء ومن أكثر من ذكره لا ترد له دعوة
ومن نقشه على خاتم في شرف القمر وأكثر من ذكره كان مسموع القول
ويصلح ذكراً للخطباء والوعاظ ومن كان اسمه مسعوداً وله من العدد
١٨٠ وهو زوج الزوج والفرد زائد أجزاؤه ٢٠٠ تشير إلى اسمين جليلين وهما قابل ملهم لأن
اسم السميع يقابل القابل ولما كان اسم السميع مظهراً لاسم القابل استوفى ملكه
لاجرم لازم الملهم في هذا المقام واعلم أنه لما كوكب القمر مظهراً لاسم القابل استوفى ملكه
آدم بكونه صاحب علم الأنبياء وكان فيه بيت العزة الذي هو خزانة القرآن ولما كان القمر أسرع
الكواكب سيراً كان مظهراً لاسم السريع فالفلك اتخذ السريع والقمر في العدد وكان كل منهما
٣٤١ ولما كان السميع القابل بأسماء حروفه على مظهره وهو العز الاسم الظاهر فيه وهو المر مع قدير
ذلك * وأما أسماء حروفه فهي ٥٥١ تشير إلى اسمين جليلين وهما رافع * وأما مربعه فهذه الصفة كأترى
س

English:
- 170 -

to [attain] wealth and security; its owner and its sovereign are for the people of his guardianship. And as for the names of its letters, they are 338, indicating two majestic names, and they are Ilāh, Rabb. And as for its square, it is this.

(Chapter twenty-six on His تعالى name Mudhill) This name, of exalted شأن—whoever increases in mentioning it, Allah abases for him whatever He wills of his enemies. And it is fitting that everyone for whom a beast or one of creation has become difficult should mention it; let him increase in mentioning it, for Allah تعالى will abase him for him. Whoever takes it as a remembrance after fasting three days, the last of them Friday, and refrains on Friday from breaking the fast, and prays two rakʿahs, and mentions the name one hundred times after al-Fātiḥah, and when he prostrates does likewise, and in the second rakʿah likewise, and he gives salām and mentions the name after the salām one thousand times and says: “O Mudhill, abase so-and-so for me,” then he will be abased for him and will not مخالفة him in any matter of the matters. (A subtle point) When the people of inner sight witnessed with the fingers of their hearts the dāl of abasement, its place being the lām of gentleness and connection, they knew that there is no connection to Him except by abasement, so they equaled the dogs in eating from the refuse heaps, and the might that has no interruption was completed for them, and they were delivered from the predicament of abasement to other than Him until they knew by faith and witnessed beneficence and knew that there is no abaser except Allah. And it has from the number 707, and it is the even of the even from it to the odd in b, حاصل from the multiplication of a stretched [figure] in a place, and its parts 1096 indicate the exaltation of the wāw, and by the ninety the ṣamadāniyyah of the ṣād, and by the alif to the utmost of the ghayn. And since the first is attained in it from his care for the person, this number indicated these letters: m g n w. So the ghayn and the mīm and the nūn are concealed from his name, and the yāʾ was omitted because of what is in it of descent, for whoever descends for someone is abased, and the wāw became a substitute for the yāʾ, indicating wealth, in which is among its concomitants abasement. And as for the names of its letters, they are 893, indicating two majestic names, and they are Dhū al-Quwwah, Mājid. And as for its square, it is this.

(Chapter twenty-seven on His تعالى name Samīʿ) This name is suitable as a remembrance; every supplication, the supplication is answered. Whoever increases in mentioning it, no invocation of his is rejected. Whoever engraves it on a ring in the exaltation of the moon and increases in mentioning it, his speech is heard. It is suitable as a remembrance for preachers and admonishers, and for one whose name is Masʿūd. It has from the number 180, and it is the even of the even and the odd plus; its parts 200 indicate two majestic names, and they are Qābil, Mulhim, because the name of the Samīʿ corresponds to the Qābil, and since the name of the Samīʿ is a manifestation of the name of the Qābil, his dominion was fulfilled. Necessarily, the Mulhim is attached in this مقام. And know that when the moon was a manifestation of the name of the Qābil, Adam’s dominion was fulfilled by his being the possessor of the knowledge of the prophets, and in it was the House of Might, which is the treasury of the Qurʾān. And when the moon was the swiftest of the planets in course, it was a manifestation of the name al-Sarīʿ, so the sphere took the swift and the moon in the number, and each of them was 341. And since the Samīʿ, the Qābil, by the names of its letters, is upon its manifestation, and it is al-ʿIzz, the name manifest in it, and it is al-Murr with Qadīr, that * And as for the names of its letters, they are 551, indicating two majestic names, and they are Rāfiʿ * And as for its square, this attribute is as you see.

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
