Arabic:
- ٥٣٢ -

الله بن إبراهيم بن موسى وجلس معه وسمع منه الحديث وهو رأى عبد الله المكي
وجلس معه وسمع منه الحديث وهو رأى حميد الطويل وجلس معه وسمع منه الحديث وهو رأى
أنس بن مالك صاحب رسول الله صلى الله عليه وسلم وجلس معه وسمع منه الحديث وهو الذي قال
لما قدم رسول الله صلى الله عليه وسلم المدينة أخذت أم سليم بيدي وقالت يارسول الله هذا أنس
غلام لبيب كاتب ماهر خذه يخدمك فأخذني وقبلني رسول الله صلى الله عليه وسلم فهذا الإسناد عن
أنس رضي الله عنه قال قال رسول الله صلى الله عليه وسلم من عباد الله من لو أقسم على الله لأبره
متفق على صحته وله عن أنس رضي الله عنه قال قال رسول الله صلى الله عليه وسلم انصر
أخاك ظالما أو مظلوما فقلت يارسول الله انصره مظلوما فكيف أنصره ظالما قال تمنعه من الظلم
فذلك نصرك إياه متفق على صحته فهذه ثلاثة أحاديث ١٢ عينا رأت من رأى النبي صلى الله عليه
وسلم وقد رأيت النبي صلى الله عليه وسلم في المنام وسألته عن الخلوة وأمهاتها فهي سبعة أيام
وأسماؤها: يا حي يا قيوم يا ذا الجلال والإكرام فإنها نهاية النهايات، يا نور الأنوار يا روح الأرواح * واعلم أنه
إذا كثر عليك في الخلوة خاطر الشهوة فتوضأ واذكر ياهادي، وإذا كثرت عليك الأفكار فاذكر
يالطيف، ولشهوة الطعام اذكر ياقوي، ولضيق العيش يافتاح، ولكثرة الخواطر النفسانية والخيالات
الشيطانية اذكر ياقوي، وإذا جاء أمر وحصل منه قلق فاذكر ياباسط، وإذا توجهت إلى شيء من
أمور الدين فاذكر ياقوي ياعزيز ياعليم ياقدير ياسميع يابصير وتوضأ لله عز وجل. وأما شيخنا أبو عبد
الله القرشي فهو من أعيان مشايخ الغرب ومصر، قال لقيت من المشايخ الكبار وأخذت عن أكثر
من ثمانين شيخاً، وقال دخلت يوماً على ابن محمد المغاوري فقال أعلمك شيئاً إذا به احتجت إلى
شيء فقلت نعم، فقال لي قل ياواحد ياأحد ياواجد ياجواد فإنه يغنيك نفع خيراتك على كل شيء قدير، قال
فأنا أنفق منها منذ سمعتها، وقال رأيت أن القيامة قد قامت ومراتب الخلق فيها ومقامات الأنبياء وصور
الأعمال كيف ظهر على أربابها، ورأيت البرزخ وحال الموتى فيه وكشف لي عن حقائق القرآن
العظيم واطلعت على أسراره وما فيه * وأما شيخنا الإمام عارف بالله العلامة أبو الحسن الحراني
قدس الله سره فقد ظهرت منه أحوال غريبة واشتهرت عنه حكايات عجيبة، وكان فائق اللسان في علم
الحروف والأسماء وعارفاً بمراتب الخصوص، وهو الذي قال من سنة بلغت لم تفتني ليلة القدر في كل سنة،
وقال رحمه الله تعالى إذا كان أول شهر رمضان ليلة الأحد كانت ليلة القدر في الثالث والرابع والعشرين منه، وإذا
كان الأربعاء كانت ليلة العشرين منه، وإذا كان الخميس كانت ليلة الخامس والعشرين منه، وإذا كان
الجمعة كانت التاسع عشر منه، وإذا كان السبت كانت ليلة الثالث والعشرين منه، وله في علم الحرف
مصنفات عظيمة الثمان منها كتاب اللمعة وكتاب شمس مطالع القلوب وغير ذلك من الفوائد
النورانية والزوائد العرفانية، وهو أبو الحسن بن علي بن محمد بن إبراهيم بن محمد الحراني سكن حماة
ومات بها سنة ٥٣٨، قال لولا اللطف والأفضل لطاب الحديث ولا الكلام، قال صلى الله عليه وسلم:
إن لله عباداً إذا نظروا لي بيده ألبسهم لباس السعادة، وفي المثل السائر عجبي لمن رأى مفلحاً ولم
يفلح.

English:
- 532 -

Allah ibn Ibrahim ibn Musa, and he sat with him and heard from him the الحديث, and he saw ‘Abd Allah al-Makki
and sat with him and heard from him the الحديث, and he saw Hamid al-Tawil and sat with him and heard from him the الحديث, and he saw
Anas ibn Malik, the Companion of the Messenger of God, may God bless him and grant him peace, and sat with him and heard from him the الحديث, and he is the one who said:
when the Messenger of God, may God bless him and grant him peace, came to Medina, Umm Sulaym took my hand and said, O Messenger of God, this is Anas,
a clever boy, a skilled scribe; take him to serve you. So the Messenger of God, may God bless him and grant him peace, took me and kissed me. So this isnad is from
Anas, may God be pleased with him, who said: the Messenger of God, may God bless him and grant him peace, said: Among the servants of God are those who, if they swear by God, He would fulfill it for them.
Agreed upon as to its soundness. And from him, from Anas, may God be pleased with him, who said: the Messenger of God, may God bless him and grant him peace, said: Support
your brother, whether oppressor or oppressed. So I said, O Messenger of God, support him when oppressed; but how do I support him when oppressor? He said: You prevent him from oppression,
and that is your support of him. Agreed upon as to its soundness. So these are three hadiths. 12 eyes saw one who saw the Prophet, may God bless him and grant him peace, and I have seen the Prophet, may God bless him and grant him peace, in a dream and asked him about seclusion and its mothers, and they are seven days,
and their names are: O Living, O Self-Subsisting, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor, for it is the end of ends, O Light of lights, O Spirit of spirits. * And know that
if in seclusion the thought of desire increases upon you, then perform ablution and mention O Guide; and if thoughts increase upon you, then mention
O Gentle; and for the desire for food mention O Strong; and for the narrowness of livelihood O Opener; and for the abundance of psychic thoughts and satanic imaginings
mention O Strong; and if a matter comes and anxiety results from it, then mention O Expander; and if you turn toward something from
the matters of religion, then mention O Strong, O Mighty, O Knowing, O Powerful, O Hearing, O Seeing, and perform ablution for God, Mighty and Majestic. As for our Shaykh Abu عبد
الله al-Qurashi, he is among the notables of the shaykhs of the West and Egypt. He said: I met from the great shaykhs and took from more
than eighty shaykhs. And he said: One day I entered upon Ibn Muhammad al-Maghawri, and he said: Shall I teach you something? If you need something by it,
I said yes. So he said to me: Say O One, O Single, O Finder, O Generous, for it will suffice you; the benefit of your good deeds is over everything, Powerful. He said:
I have been spending from it since I heard it. And he said: I saw that the Resurrection had arisen, and the ranks of creation in it, and the stations of the prophets, and the forms
of deeds, how they appeared upon their owners, and I saw the barzakh and the state of the dead in it, and the truths of the عظیم Qur'an were unveiled to me
and I became aware of its secrets and what is in it. * As for our Shaykh the Imam, knower of God, the erudite Abu al-Hasan al-Harrani,
may God sanctify his secret, strange states appeared from him and wondrous tales became famous about him, and he was surpassing in tongue in the science of
letters and names and knowing the ranks of the elect. He is the one who said: from a year that reached, the Night of Power did not pass me by in every year.
And he said, may God تعالى have mercy on him: if the first of the month of Ramadan was the night of Sunday, then the Night of Power was on the twenty-third and twenty-fourth of it; and if
it was Wednesday, then it was the night of the twentieth of it; and if it was Thursday, then it was the night of the twenty-fifth of it; and if
it was Friday, then it was the nineteenth of it; and if it was Saturday, then it was the night of the twenty-third of it. And he has in the science of letters
great compositions, eight of them, among them the Book of al-Lumعة and the Book of Shams Maṭāli‘ al-Qulub and other luminous benefits
and عرفاني additions. He is Abu al-Hasan ibn علي ibn Muhammad ibn Ibrahim ibn Muhammad al-Harrani; he settled in Hama
and died there in the year 538. He said: Were it not for gentleness and الأفضل, the discourse and the speech would be pleasant. He, may God bless him and grant him peace, said:
Indeed, God has servants who, when they look to me by His hand, He clothes them with the garment of felicity. And in the current proverb: my wonder at one who saw a successful one and did not
succeed.

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
