Arabic:
— ٤٩١ —

به على شهواتي واقهر به أعداي وتبرز في باطني بروز ذاتك الباطن والظاهر ما يذهب به سيئاتي
وغفلاتي وتقدس بتقديس ذاتك ذاتي يا الله يا ظاهر يا باطن لا إله إلا أنت سبحانك إني كنت
من الظالمين ما من عبد واظب على هذا الذكر الأنور إلا أنار الله قلبه وأعطاه كل ما يتمناه وكشف له عما يريد
( فصل في اسمه تعالى الوالي المتعال )
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم اعلم أن اسمه الوالي لم يرد في القرآن العظيم ومعناه مالك الأشياء والمستولى
عليها والمتصرف فيها بمشيئته وأمره ينفذ فيها حكمه ويجرى عليها أمره فإنه جل وعلا منفرد
بتدبيرها وهو المنفذ للتدبير بالتحقيق والقائم عليها بالإدامة والإبقاء وتقدم ذلك ( وأما اسمه تعالى
المتعال ) فقد ورد في القرآن العظيم في قوله تعالى الكبير المتعال وهو بمعنى العلو مع نوع من
المبالغة وقد تقدم معناه والله الموفق
( فصل في اسمه تعالى البر )
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم اعلم أن معنى البر هو الحق والبر المطلق هو الذي منه كل مسرة وإحسان
والعبد إنما يكون براً بقدر ما يتعاطى من البر لاسيما لوالديه ومشايخه وروى أن موسى عليه السلام
لما كلمه ربه رأى رجلاً قائماً عند ساق العرش فتعجب من مكانه فقال يارب بلغ هذا العبد هذا
المحل فقال إنه لا يحسد أحداً من خلقي وكان باراً بوالديه فهذا هو البر عند الله وأما تفصيل بر الله تعالى
وألطافه بعبده المؤمن أن جعله من أهل اليمين وألهمه الإجابة في الدار على الرضا عنه فاشتق له ثم رزقه
الإجابة على ما سأل لنظره تريك في عالم الحسن وتراكمت عليه الشهوات ووطر القربات الطبيعات
عادة الحق تعالى على محل الإيمان منه وبره تعالى يبعث الرسل عليهم الصلاة والسلام والكتب المنزلة
عليهم وقد رزقهم الله تعالى القبول وهو أعظم . ثم ألهمه القيام بما عمل به عليه من شرائعه ثم وعده
القيام بالعمل ثم أخذه عن الشهوات أمانة وبره بروحه فيناله من البر والكرم . في دار الآخرة فهي
ممر برزخية ودار رسمه في حواصل طيور خضر من الجنة ترتع في رياض الجنة إلى يوم البعث ثم بره
بأن أحياه بعد موته البر الأعظم والرحمة الوافية ثم ثبته على الصراط المستقيم لئلا ينزل من هذا المطلع
في النار بعد أن حصل الإيمان بإبداء السلام عن يمينه والقرآن أمامه والسنة حامله ثم بره بأن سقاه
من حوض الحياة شربة لا يظمأ بعدها ثم بره بأن أدخله الجنة ومن عليه بالنظر إلى وجهه الكريم
ثم بره بأن جعله في هذا النعيم من الخالدين إلى أبد الآبدين ودهر الداهرين ثم بره بأن أخدم له
كلامه كما أخدم له في دار الدنيا الأكوان قال تعالى وسخر لكم ما في السموات وما في الأرض جميعاً
فهذه جملة تصرف الله تعالى بلطفه وبره في خلقه وعباده المؤمنين وروى عن الحسن بن علي رضي
الله تعالى عنهما أنه مكث مدة لا يأكل مع أمه فاطمة الزهراء رضي الله تعالى عنها فقالت له لماذا يا ولدي
فقال أخشى أن يقع بصرك على شيء من الإناء وأسبقك عليه ولا أشعر به فأكون عاقاً لك فقالت له
يا ولدي كل معي وأنت في حل من ذلك فامتثل أمرها واعلم أن من بره لك أن جعلك شاهداً على الأمم يوم
القيامة وستر قبائح فعلك عن الملائكة باستغفارك وينبغي للإنسان أن يبر جميع الخلق فيما يرد من
منه خصوصاً الفقراء والمساكين وأن تبر قلبك بالفكر والإخلاص ليكون ذلك سبباً للكشف عن

English:
— 491 —

by it against my desires, and subdue by it my enemies, and manifest in my inward the manifestation of Your inward and outward essence, what removes my evil deeds and my heedlessness, and sanctify by the sanctification of Your essence my essence, O God, O Outward, O Inward, there is no god except You, glory be to You, indeed I was among the wrongdoers. There is no servant who perseveres upon this most luminous remembrance except that God illuminates his heart and gives him all that he wishes and discloses to him what he wants.

(Chapter on His تعالى name: the Guardian, the Most High)
In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Know that His name al-Wālī has not come in the Mighty Qur’an, and its meaning is the owner of things and the one who has mastery over them and the disposer in them by His will and His command; His judgment is carried out in them and His command runs upon them, for He, glorious and exalted, is singular in their management, and He is the one carrying out the management in truth and the one قائم over them by perpetuation and remaining. And what preceded that. And as for His تعالى name al-Mutaʿāl, it has come in the Mighty Qur’an in His saying تعالى: al-Kabīr al-Mutaʿāl, and it is in the meaning of loftiness with a kind of exaggeration, and its meaning has preceded, and God is the grantor of success.

(Chapter on His تعالى name: al-Barr)
In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Know that the meaning of al-Barr is the Truth, and absolute al-Barr is that from whom is every joy and beneficence. And the servant is only righteous to the extent that he practices righteousness, especially toward his parents and his shaykhs. And it is related that Moses عليه السلام, when his Lord spoke to him, saw a man standing at the leg of the Throne, so he wondered at his place. He said: O Lord, reach this servant this station. He said: He does not envy anyone among My creation, and he was dutiful to his parents; so this is righteousness with God. And as for the detail of God’s تعالى righteousness and His gentleness toward His believing servant: that He made him among the people of the right hand and inspired him with the response in the abode upon being pleased with him, so He derived for him, then provided him with the response to what he asked for, for His النظر shows you in the world of beauty, and desires and the natural longings of nearness accumulated upon him. The custom of the Truth تعالى upon the place of faith from Him, and His تعالى righteousness sends the messengers عليهم الصلاة والسلام and the revealed books to them, and God تعالى has provided them with acceptance, and that is greatest. Then He inspired him to undertake what He acted upon of His laws, then promised him the undertaking of the act, then took him from the desires as a trust, and His righteousness by His spirit, so he attains from righteousness and generosity. In the abode of the Hereafter, for it is a barzakh passage and the abode of His form in the crops of green birds from Paradise, grazing in the gardens of Paradise until the Day of Resurrection. Then His righteousness by reviving him after his death, the greatest righteousness and the abundant mercy. Then He fixed him upon the straight path lest he descend from this outlook into the Fire after faith had been obtained by the showing of peace on his right and the Qur’an before him and the Sunna carrying him. Then His righteousness by giving him to drink from the Basin of Life a draught after which he will never thirst. Then His righteousness by entering him into Paradise and favoring him with looking upon His noble Face. Then His righteousness by making him in this bliss among the abiding forever, to the eternity of eternities and the age of ages. Then His righteousness by making His speech serve him, as He made the beings serve him in the abode of الدنيا. He تعالى said: And He subjected for you what is in the heavens and what is in the earth, all together. So this is a summary of God’s تعالى disposal by His gentleness and His righteousness in His creation and His believing servants. And it is related from al-Hasan ibn ʿAlī رضي الله تعالى عنهما that he remained for a period not eating with his mother Fāṭimah al-Zahrā’ رضي الله تعالى عنها, so she said to him: Why, my son? He said: I fear that your gaze may fall upon something from the vessel and I precede you to it and not feel it, and so I would be disobedient to you. So she said to him: My son, eat with me and you are in release from that. So he complied with her command. And know that among His righteousness toward you is that He made you a witness over the الأمم on the Day of Resurrection and concealed the uglinesses of your deed from the angels by your seeking forgiveness. And it is fitting for the human being to be righteous to all creation in what comes from

Notes:
[Grid content preserved as-is]

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
