Arabic:
- ٤٣٩ -

وهو ركن واحد وإن اختلفت جهاته نزل إلى سطح الأرض وقوله تعالى (وترى الجبال تحسبها جامدة
وهي تمر مر السحاب صنع الله الذي أتقن كل شيء) ثم النبات منه ما هو قوام الأجساد ومنه ما فيه
هلاكها ألا ترى الصغير الجسم لو تراكم عليه الماء وإن كان الماء على الرحمة كان غذاء في حقه
لأنه يقضي الحاجة ومثله النبات الكبير فلابد أن كل عالم له حده معلوم كما أن الشجرة محتوية على أصول
وفروع وهي محتوية على أغصان وورق وما محتويان على زهر وثمر ولكل واحد عدد يليق به
والجبار تعالى هو سر الجبر والقهر ولولا ذلك لاختل النظام وهذه العناصر الأربعة المعظمة القدر التي
قام بها نظام العالم وأن الإنسان إذا هذب نفسه حصلت له الخلافة والجبرية واستنزلت روحه وتهذبت
أخلاقه فخذ منه الطبائع ولولا سر الإمداد وإقامة الطبائع ونسبتها بسر الجبر والجهر ولو قام منها
عنصر لأهلك الجسم وفسد وإن الحياة رحيرها بسر الجبر هو باقية الجسم قام فنظام العالم والكون والفساد
ولذلك ظهر نظام العالم بسر النسب والإضافات فإن الأنساب كلها أسماء الله وهي النسب الإلهية حتى
لا يفتقر الإله وأن نظام الجسم بالحرارة الغريزية وبقية الأربع طبائع ومر هذه الطبائع بالقوة
القهرية فإذا انتقل إلى الدار الآخرة ارتفع سر القدرة والقهر عن الطبائع المؤلفات وعلى هذه
الصفة يكون أسرار العلم الملك الذي هو عالم الغيب والشهادة ثم الشاهد الثاني فإن الله تعالى خلق عالماً
من العوالم بتدبيره وأن العلم العلوي كما أن له نظاماً وعالم تدبير الأفلاك بقوة جبرية بكل عالم وجبره
ووجب التقدير والروح في فضل التركيب بحكمة إلهية والتقرب إلى الله بهذا الاسم الرياضة ٤٠ يوماً
ومهما خطر لك من الزوائل من الكبر والزعونات الأمارة فأورده على الخواطر والأصول الأصول الكناية
والأصول المحمدية ومن ربط هذا الاسم بطريق التكسير وكتبه في مربع وحمله كان ذا قدر عند
الملوك والحكام ومن كتب مربعه على فضة وحوله اسم الملك والذكر القائم به وحمله ودخل على
الملوك عظموه وإن كان لسان له عدو أو ظالم تجبر عليه يتلوه عدده مضروباً في نفسه ويقول اللهم إني
أسألك باسمك الجبار أن فلاناً عبدك آذاني وتجبر علي وأنت جبار السموات والأرض أسألك أن تجبره
وتقهره بالمحبة والمودة لي يا جبار يا الله وإن شئت قلت أجب أيها الملك ووكل بفلان بحق هذا الاسم
وتتلوه وقد رأيت هذه الآية وهي قوله تعالى هو الله لا إله إلا هو عالم الغيب والشهادة الخ وفيها
هذه الآية وأسماء كلها اشتقاقية وفيها اسم واحد غير اشتقاق وهو من باب الروح في طريق الأوفاق
ولها مربع إذا كتب بمسك وزعفران وماء ورد ويكون الكاتب صائماً ويتلو الآية ويذكر كرام
من يريد من الملوك الأرضية وتكلم بالله كرر الآ [?] فإنه يحضر وإذا أردت إحضاره فأت لاسم عدده فإنه
يحضر وهو من عوالم عزرائيل وتحت يده ٤ قواد تحت يد كل قائد ٦٠ صفاً ويأتي للذاكر يقضي
حاجته وهذه صفته الصحيفة الآتية

English:
It is one pillar, even if its directions differ; it descends to the surface of the earth. And His, تعالى, saying: “And you see the mountains, you think them solid, while they pass as the passing of the clouds; the صنع of Allah, who perfected everything.” Then of the plants, some are the sustenance of bodies, and some are in them their destruction. Do you not see that the small-bodied thing, if water accumulates upon it—though water is upon mercy—it is nourishment in its right, because it fulfills the need; and the like of it is the large plant. So it is necessary that every world has its known limit, just as the tree contains roots and branches, and it contains boughs and leaves, and they contain blossom and fruit, and for each one a number fitting to it.
And the تعالى الجبار is the secret of compulsion and subjugation, and were it not for that the order would be disturbed. And these four elements, of great value, by which the order of the world stands; and that when man disciplines his self, the caliphate and the جبريّة are obtained for him, and his spirit is drawn down and his character is disciplined. So take from him the natures. And were it not for the secret of support and the establishment of the natures and their attribution by the secret of compulsion and proclamation, and if one element of them were to stand, it would destroy the body and corrupt it. And life, its life by the secret of compulsion, is the remaining of the body; the order of the world, and generation and corruption, stand. And therefore the order of the world appeared by the secret of relations and additions, for all lineages are the names of Allah, and they are the divine relations, so that the deity is not in need. And the order of the body is by the innate heat and the remainder of the four natures, and the passing of these natures by the coercive power. So if it transfers to the Abode of the Hereafter, the secret of power and subjugation is lifted from the composite natures. And upon this description are the secrets of the science of الملك, which is the world of the unseen and the witnessed. Then the second witness: Allah تعالى created a world from the worlds by His management, and the upper science, just as it has an order, and the world of the management of the spheres by a coercive power over every world and its compulsion, and the decree became necessary, and the spirit in the excellence of composition by divine wisdom. And drawing near to Allah by this name: the spiritual exercise for 40 days. And whatever may occur to you of the vanishings, from pride and the commanding stirrings, bring it upon the thoughts and the roots, the roots of allusion and the Muhammadan roots. And whoever binds this name by the method of breaking down and writes it in a square and carries it, he will be of rank with the kings and rulers. And whoever writes its square on silver and around it the name of the king and the remembrance by which it is قائم and carries it and enters upon the kings, they magnify him. And if he has an enemy of the tongue or an oppressor who subjugates him, he recites its number multiplied by itself and says: O Allah, I ask You by Your name, الجبار, that so-and-so, Your servant, has harmed me and has subjugated himself against me, and You are the Subjugator of the heavens and the earth; I ask You to subjugate him and overpower him with love and affection for me, O جبار, O Allah. And if you wish, you say: Answer, O king, and appoint so-and-so by the right of this name, and recite it. And I have seen this verse, and it is His, تعالى, saying: He is Allah, there is no god but He, Knower of the unseen and the witnessed, etc. And in it are these verses, and all the names are derivational, and in it is one name that is not derivational, and it is from the chapter of the spirit in the path of the correspondences. And it has a square; if it is written with musk and saffron and rose water, and the writer is fasting, and he recites the verse and mentions the noble one of the earthly kings whom he يريد, and speaks with Allah, repeat the [?], for he will be present. And if you wish to bring him, then come to the name whose number it is, for he will be present, and he is from the worlds of ʿAzrā’īl, and under his hand are 4 commanders; under the hand of each commander are 60 ranks, and he comes to the one who remembers, fulfilling his need. And this is its description, the following page.

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
