Arabic:
— ٤٧٠ —

جميع البواطن والسواكن أن تحرّكها واحد وله خلوة جليلة وهو من أذكار المولهين وخواصه
لإجابة الدعاء وبلوغ المراد وجلب الخيرات ومن خواصه لجلب القلوب والدخول على الملوك
والسلاطين وهو أن يجلس الشخص في مكان خال ويجلس ويصور الشخص واتل لاسمها واكتب
المربع في شقفة نيئة واجله ووكل عليه يحصل المطلوب وإذا كتب على فضة وحمله إنسان مع
ذكره القائم به ورفع يديه إلى السماء وسأل الله شيئاً أجاب دعاه وهذه صورته الم | ج | ب
وأما الذكر القائم به فالبسملة اللهم أنت المجيب دعوة الداعي إذا كان مخلصاً بما | ٤ | ١١ | ٣٢ | ٣٦
دعائه ومسعف المضطرين بالإجابة قبل سؤالهم لأنك عالم بحاجة المحتاجين بما | ١ | ١٠ | ٢٢ | ٣٢
سبق في علمك القديم من الأمور المقدورات ونفوذ ما قضيت من الإرادات | ٤١ | ٣٤ | ٩ | ٣
المحكمات وإسراع أمرك في أقطار الأرض وطبقات السموات أسألك أن تجيب دعوتي وتسرع
بقضاء حاجتي وتكشف عني شر ملماتي وتأمن روعاتي ومخافاتي وتقهر من أراد مضراتي وترفع
درجاتي إلى غاية غاياتي أنت منتهى غايتي من جميع جهاتي وكل توجهاتي يا الله يا قريب يا مجيب وهو مضاف
لاسمه القريب

( فصل في اسمه تعالى الواسع )
اعلم أنه مشتق من السعة وهي تضاف تارة إلى العالم وتارة لمولانا الخالق فأما من جهة العالم فإذا
اتسع وأحاط بوجوده والإدراكات حقائق المعلومات إن يضاف إلى الإحسان والإنعام وكيف
ما وقع عليه بالتقديس وأظهرته العبارة فإنه هو الواسع المطلق فإن نظر إلى علمه فلا نهاية له من
جميع المعلومات بأن ينفذ لجاري الأكوان لو كانت مداد ويفنى نبات الأرض إذا كانت أقلاماً
لكلماته العليا وأمهاته الحسنى وإن اعتباره إلى حقيقته فلا نبات ولا بحار والكل صفة العظيم
مرامها والذي لا ينتهي إلى طرف هو أحس بالسعة وليس ذلك إلا الله فهو الواسع على الإطلاق قال
تعالى ربنا وسعت كل شيء رحمة وعلماً وحظ العبد من هذه سعة الأخلاق وسعة العلم وسعة الكشف
وسعة الباطن فإذا رأى العبد ذلك واتسع باطنه لقبول الإيمان ويسمى ذلك بمقامات الوسع في عالم
الأجسام وهو لا يقل المحسوسات والواسع في الباطن لا يكون إلا بمعنى نوراني ولهذا الاسم خلوة
أن يعتكف في مكان خال له إشراف على مكان واسع ويتلو الاسم دبر كل صلاة عدد بسائطه فإن
الملك القائم به يأتيك في نوم أو يقظة ومن واظب عليه هانت عليه الأمور الصعاب وخواصه لقضاء
الحوائج لأنه فيه اتساع الخلوة ونقل الإنسان من الضيق إلى السعة ومن العسر إلى اليسر ومن
القبض إلى البسط والذاكر له ينزل عليه الملك ويقضى حاجته وإن وافق اسمه اسم شخص كان
أمراً أعظم في حقه وإذا كتب في رق ووضعه في حانوت أو كيس أو غلة بارك الله فيه وإذا
نقش على خاتم وختم به إنسان فإن حوائجه تقضى وإذا تلاه صاحب السوداء مع الذكر نفعه وهذه
صورته في الصحيفة الآتية

وذكره

English:
— 470 —

all the inward things and the still things, that One moves them. And it has a noble retreat, and it is among the remembrances of the bewildered ones, and its properties
are for answering the supplication, attaining the intended, and bringing good things. And among its properties is for bringing hearts and entering upon kings
and sultans. And it is that a person sits in an empty place and sits and depicts the person, and recite to its name and write
the square in a fresh shard and leave it and entrust it to it; the desired will be obtained. And if it is written on silver and a person carries it, together with
its remembrance by which it is maintained, and raises his hands to the heaven and asks God for something, He answers his supplication. And this is its form: al-m | j | b
And as for the remembrance by which it is maintained, it is the basmala: O God, You are the Responder to the supplication of the supplicant if he is sincere, by what | 4 | 11 | 32 | 36
of his supplication, and the helper of the distressed with response before their asking, because You are knowing of the need of the needy by what | 1 | 10 | 22 | 32
سبق in Your ancient knowledge of the decreed matters and the نفوذ of what You have decreed of the wills | 41 | 34 | 9 | 3
the firmly established, and the hastening of Your command in the regions of the earth and the طبقات of the heavens. I ask You to answer
my supplication and hasten
the fulfillment of my need, and uncover from me the evil of my afflictions, and secure my terrors and my fears, and subdue whoever intended my harms, and raise
my درجات to the utmost of my goals. You are the end of my goal from all my directions and all my turnings, O God, O Near, O Responder; and it is annexed
to His name, the Near.

(Chapter on His تعالى name, the Vast)
Know that it is derived from vastness, and it is attributed sometimes to the world and sometimes to our Master the Creator. As for from the aspect of the world, when
it becomes vast and encompasses by its existence, and the perceptions, the realities of the known things, if it is attributed to beneficence and bounty, and however
it is applied to it by sanctification and expression, then He is the absolute Vast. For if it is considered in relation to His knowledge, then there is no end to it from
all known things, such that the running of the cosmos would be exhausted if they were ink, and the vegetation of the earth would be consumed if they were pens
for His highest words and His best mothers. And if its consideration is to His reality, then there is no vegetation nor seas, and all is the attribute of the عظیم,
its aim, and that which does not end at a limit is what is most felt by vastness, and that is none but God, so He is the Vast in the absolute sense. He تعالى said:
“Our Lord, You have encompassed everything in mercy and knowledge.” And the servant’s portion of this is vastness of character, vastness of knowledge, vastness of unveiling,
and vastness of the inward. So if the servant sees that and his inward becomes vast for the acceptance of faith, and that is called the stations of vastness in the world
of bodies, and it does not diminish the محسوسات. And the Vast in the inward is only in a luminous meaning. And for this name there is a retreat:
that he seclude himself in an empty place overlooking a wide place, and recite the name after every prayer, the number of its simples. For
the king who maintains it will come to you in sleep or wakefulness. And whoever persists upon it, the difficult matters become easy for him, and among its properties is for fulfilling
needs, because in it is the expansiveness of retreat and the انتقال of the human being from narrowness to vastness and from hardship to ease and from
constriction to expansion. And the one who remembers it, the king descends upon him and his need is fulfilled. And if its name corresponds to the name of a person, it is
a greater matter in his right. And if it is written on a parchment and placed in a shop or a pouch or a crop, God blesses it. And if
it is engraved on a ring and a person seals with it, then his needs are fulfilled. And if the possessor of السوداء recites it with the remembrance, it benefits him. And this
is its form in the following page.

And its remembrance

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
