Arabic:
- ٢٦١ -

الحال إذن الله تعالى أولم ير الإنسان أنا خلقناه من نطفة فإذا هو خصيم مبين سبحان المفرج عن كل
محزون سبحان المنفس عن كل مديون سبحان المخلص عن كل مسجون سبحان العالم بكل مكنون
سبحان من خزائن ملكه بين الكاف والنون سبحان من إذا أراد شيئاً إلى آخرها سبحانه ٣
سبحان ربك رب العزة إلى آخرها بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم الحمد لله رب العالمين إلى آخرها اللهم اجعلني
من الذين أنعمت عليهم من النبيين وملكتهم أسرار أسمائك يارب يارحمن ٣ مرات ويدعو
يستجاب له في الوقت ويقول اللهم سخر لي الملك والملكوت لا إله إلا أنت ياذا الجلال والإكرام ياحي
ياقيوم بك أستغيث يا مغيث أغثني أربعين مرة ويسأل حاجته يستجاب له في الوقت ويقول ٣٧
يا مجيب أجب دعوتي واقض حاجتي برحمتك يا أرحم الراحمين ويسأل حاجته تقضى ويقول اللهم إني
أسألك باسمك العظيم الأعظم ونبيك المكرم سيدنا محمد صلى الله عليه وسلم أن تفعل بي ما أنت أهله
ولا تفعل بي ما أنا أهله إنك أهل التقوى وأهل المغفرة ويسأل حاجته ويقول وضرب لنا مثلاً إلى قوله
بكل خلق عليم وتقول اللهم خفف عنا ثقل الأوزار وارزقنا معيشة الأبرار واصرف عنا شر وسواس
الليل والنهار وأعتق رقابنا من النار وآباءنا وأمهاتنا برحمتك يا أرحم الراحمين ياعزيز ياغفار يا كريم
ويسأل حاجته يستجاب له وتقول الذي جعل لكم من الشجر الأخضر ناراً إلى آخرها بسم الله الرحمن
الرحيم الحمد لله رب العالمين إلى آخرها ويسأل حاجته ويقول سبع مرات ياهادي المضلين لاهادي
غيرك اهدنا الصراط المستقيم صراط الذين أنعمت عليهم وملكتهم أسرار أسمائك يارب العالمين
ويسأل حاجته يستجاب له غير المغضوب عليهم ولا الضالين آمين يامبين ٧ ويقول اللهم سخر لي
الملك والملكوت لا إله إلا أنت ياذا الجلال والإكرام ياحي ياقيوم ٣ مرات بك أستغيث وتقول
يا مغيث أغثني ٤ مرات ويدعو يستجاب له ويقول ٣٧ مرة يامجيب أجب دعوتي واقض
حاجتي يا أرحم الراحمين وتقول أربع مرات اللهم إني أسألك باسمك العظيم الأعظم ونبيك المكرم
محمد صلى الله عليه وسلم أن تفعل بي ما أنت أهله ولا تفعل بي ما أنا أهله إنك أهل التقوى وأهل المغفرة
وتقول اللهم ارزقنا خير الدنيا ونعيم الآخرة وتب علينا قبل الممات ولا تعذبنا بعد الموت وهون علينا
سكرات الموت ياسامع الأصوات اللهم احفظنا من العلة في الغربة ومن العلة عند الشدة ومن
الشقاوة عند الخاتمة اللهم سلمنا وسلم ديننا ولا تسلب وقت النزع إيماننا ولا تفتنا عند الموت اللهم
اجعلني مكثراً لذكرك مؤدياً لحقك راجياً لوعدك خائفاً لوعيدك راضياً في كل حال عنك فرج
همي واكشف غمي واقض حاجتي ياقاضي الحاجات وأجب دعوتي يامجيب الدعوات بحق هذه
السورة واغفر لي ولوالدي ولجميع المسلمين والمسلمات والمؤمنين والمؤمنات إنك سميع قريب
مجيب الدعوات برحمتك يا أرحم الراحمين واسأل حاجتك واقطع بسرعة الإجابة في الحال
قبل أن تقوم من مقامك والله لقاء جربها خلق كثير لا تحصى وقالوا دعونا بها كثيراً فيستجاب لنا
في الحال * وقد جربتها في مواطن كثيرة فظهر لي بركتها وهذا كله مع صدق النية والإخلاص مع
الله تعالى فقد ورد في الحديث المرواني أنا عند ظن عبدي بي فليظن ماشاء فإذا قضيت حاجته يحمد
الله تعالى بجميع محامده التي في القرآن العظيم * ومن أراد سعة الرزق فليقرأها كل يوم ٧ مرات

English:
The state then [is] Allah تعالى. Did not man see that We created him from a drop, then behold, he is a manifest disputant? Glory be to the Reliever of every sorrowed one, glory be to the Dispeller of every indebted one, glory be to the Deliverer of every imprisoned one, glory be to the Knower of every hidden thing, glory be to Him whose خزائن of His kingdom are between the Kaf and the Nun, glory be to Him who, when He wills a thing, to the end of it, glory be to Him 3. Glory be to your Lord, the Lord of Might, to the end of it. In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Praise be to Allah, Lord of the worlds, to the end of it. O Allah, make me among those upon whom You have bestowed favor, from the prophets, and You have made them possess the secrets of Your names, my Lord, my Merciful Lord, 3 times, and he supplicates; it will be answered for him in the moment. And he says: O Allah, subdue for me the kingdom and the dominion; there is no god but You, O Possessor of majesty and honor, O Living, O Self-Subsisting, by You I seek help; O Reliever, relieve me, forty times, and he asks his need; it will be answered for him in the moment. And he says 37 times: O Answerer, answer my call and fulfill my need by Your mercy, O Most Merciful of the merciful. And he asks his need; it is fulfilled. And he says: O Allah, I ask You by Your greatest, most greatest name and Your honored Prophet, our master Muhammad, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, that You do with me what You are worthy of, and do not do with me what I am worthy of; indeed You are worthy of piety and worthy of forgiveness. And he asks his need. And he says: And He struck for us a parable, to His saying, with every creation knowing. And you say: O Allah, lighten for us the burden of the burdens, and provide for us the livelihood of the righteous, and turn away from us the evil of the whisperings of the night and the day, and free our necks from the Fire, and our fathers and our mothers, by Your mercy, O Most Merciful of the merciful, O Mighty, O Forgiving, O Generous. And he asks his need; it will be answered for him. And you say: He who made for you from the green tree fire, to the end of it. In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Praise be to Allah, Lord of the worlds, to the end of it. And he asks his need and says seven times: O Guide of the misled, there is no guide other than You, guide us to the straight path, the path of those upon whom You have bestowed favor and have made them possess the secrets of Your names, my Lord of the worlds. And he asks his need; it will be answered for him: not of those upon whom is wrath, nor of those who go astray, amen, O Manifest 7. And he says: O Allah, subdue for me the kingdom and the dominion; there is no god but You, O Possessor of majesty and honor, O Living, O Self-Subsisting, 3 times, by You I seek help; and you say: O Reliever, relieve me 4 times, and he supplicates; it will be answered for him. And he says 37 times: O Answerer, answer my call and fulfill my need, O Most Merciful of the merciful. And you say four times: O Allah, I ask You by Your greatest, most greatest name and Your honored Prophet Muhammad, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, that You do with me what You are worthy of, and do not do with me what I am worthy of; indeed You are worthy of piety and worthy of forgiveness. And you say: O Allah, provide us with the good of this world and the bliss of the Hereafter, and turn to us before death, and do not punish us after death, and make easy for us the agonies of death, O Hearer of voices. O Allah, preserve us from affliction in exile, and from affliction at hardship, and from wretchedness at the end. O Allah, keep us safe and keep safe our religion, and do not strip us at the time of the wrenching away of our faith, and do not try us at death. O Allah, make me abundant in Your remembrance, fulfilling Your right, hoping for Your promise, fearing Your threat, content in every state with You. Relieve my worry and uncover my distress and fulfill my need, O Fulfillor of needs, and answer my call, O Answerer of supplications, by the right of this surah, and forgive me and my parents and all Muslim men and Muslim women and believing men and believing women. Indeed You are Hearing, Near, Answerer of supplications, by Your mercy, O Most Merciful of the merciful. And ask your need and cut off quickly the speed of the answer immediately before you rise from your place. By Allah, many creatures beyond counting have tried it, and they said: we have called upon it كثيراً and it is answered for us immediately. * And I have tried it in many places, and its blessing became apparent to me. And all this is with sincerity of intention and sincerity with Allah تعالى, for it has come in the Marwani hadith: I am according to the opinion of My servant of Me, so let him think as he wills. So if I have fulfilled his need, he praises Allah تعالى with all His praises that are in the العظيم Qur'an. * And whoever desires abundance of provision, let him recite it every day 7 times.

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
