Arabic:
- ٣٠٨ -

به مرض حار وفعل ذلك على ٣ أيام متوالية شفاه الله ﷿ ومن كتب شكله المخصوص به على جلد نمر وحرقه وسحقه واكتحل به رأى الارواح من غير حجاب ﵀ ومن كتب حرف الحاء الهندى ٦٤ حول البثرات فانها تذهب وهذه صورته ح ح ح ح ومن رسمها في جام زجاج ومحاه بماء عذب وشرب منه من به التهاب في قلبه أو باطنه ح ح ح ح سكن ألمه وانتعشت روحه ﵀ ومن نزل أعدادها في مربع ٨ في ٨ في لوح من قصدير في شرف المشترى والقمر سالم من النحوس وحمله معه أعطاه الله رزقا حسنا واسعا وحببه الى خلقه واذا علق على من به صداع من قبل الصفر شفى وله تأثير في تسكين الخصومات والحروب واذا علق هذا المثمن على لواء الجيش فانه يسكن الفئة المقابلة له وهذه صورته
ودعاؤه اللهم اني أسألك باحي ياحكيم ياحمد ياحنان ياحسيب ياحفيظ ياحق ياحافظ بما أودعته حرف الحاء من الاسرار المكنونة أن تسخر لي خدام هذا الحرف يطيعونني فيما لك فيه رضا انك على كل شئ قدير ﵀ وهو صامت بارد وقسم حرف الحاء وها عنصر واحد ولكن مختلفان في الخواص من وجه دون آخر ان اتفقا في الطبع وليس لحرف الحاء وكل صامت غير العدد البسطي وما يتشعب ﵀ ومن خواصه اذا كتب في اناء صيني لم يمسه دم ٦٠٠ مرة ومحاه بماء البان وشرب منه من به خفقان سكن وله شكل عربي وهندى فالعربي هكذا خ والهندى ٦٠٠ ﵀ ومن خواصه ان وضع مربعا وجعل فيه الحاء كالدائرة على ذلك المربع ونزل فيه أعداد الحروف وحمله الجبان في عنقه قوي قلبه وصار شجاعا واذا علق على صغير لم يفزع ولم يبك وهو حجاب نافع من الجن والانس ﵀ ومن خواصه اذا نقش على فص من بلور وركب على خاتم من فضة وعلق على من أدركها المخاض وضعت حالا ومن نزل أعداد مركبه العددي في طشت من نحاس أحمر بقلم ريحان بماء ورد وزعفران ويكتب حوله الحرف ٦٠٠ ومحاه بماء المطر وسقاه لمن به لوقة ٣ أيام فانه يبرأ وهذه صورته خ خ خ خ وله أسماء يدعى بها على أعماله تقول اللهم اني أسألك بالخلاق بالخالق ياخافض ياخبير خ خ خ خ ياخفي اللطف ان تسخر لي خدام هذا الحرف فيما أمرهم به انك على كل شئ قدير ﵀ وهو حرف ناطق دال على العلوم والحكمة وهو منسوب لعطارد ونسبته طبيعية توافقه حسا ومعنى وهو بارد رطب وكل ما كان في عطارد ومن الحركات وغيرها فهو في حرف الدال ﵀ وهذا الحرف له خواص ومن كتبه أربع مرات على ورم حار أو غيره أذهبه الله ومن كتب شكله الهندى ٦٧ على حرق النار لم يضره ألم الحرق ولا تقرح ﵀ ومن نزل أعداده وهي ٣٠ في مربع وكتب في زاويته حرف الدال خارج الوفق على لوح من اليم وحمله لمن به وجع الامعاء نفعه ﵀ ومن كتبها في صبح على لوح فضة معلوم بزئبق ساعة عطارد وشرفه ونظر اليه كل يوم ٤ مرات وكلما نظر اليه يسأل الله الاسرار الموضوعة في حرف الدال أن يؤتيه الحكمة وما أراد من العلوم فانه يؤتيه ماطلب وهذه صورته د ٤٤ ودعاؤه اللهم اني أسألك بادائم العز يادا الجود بما أودعته حرف الدال من الاسرار المكنونة د ٤٤ والأنوار المخزونة أن تسخر لي ملائكتك خدام هذا الحرف فيما أمرهم به انك على كل شئ

English:
- 308 -

With a hot illness, and he did that for 3 consecutive days, God ﷿ healed him. And whoever writes its special form for him on tiger skin and burns it and crushes it and uses it as kohl, sees the spirits without a veil ﵀. And whoever writes the Indian letter Hā’ 64 around the pustules, then they go away, and this is its form: ح ح ح ح. And whoever draws it in a glass bowl and erases it with sweet water and drinks from it, if there is in him inflammation in his heart or his inner part, ح ح ح ح, his pain subsides and his spirit is revived ﵀. And whoever brings down its numbers in a square 8 by 8 on a sheet of tin in the exaltation of Jupiter, and the Moon safe from the inauspicious, and carries it with him, God gives him good, abundant provision and makes him beloved to His creation. And if it is hung upon one who has a headache from yellow bile, he is cured. And it has an effect in calming disputes and wars. And if this octagon is hung upon the banner of the army, then it calms the opposing faction to it, and this is its form.

And its invocation: O God, I ask You by ḥayy, yā ḥakīm, yā ḥamd, yā ḥannān, yā ḥasīb, yā ḥafīẓ, yā ḥaqq, yā ḥāfiẓ, by what You deposited in the letter Hā’ of the hidden secrets, that You subjugate for me the servants of this letter, that they obey me in what is pleasing to You therein; indeed You are powerful over everything ﷿. And it is silent, cold, and the division of the letter Hā’ and Hā’ is one element, but they differ in properties from one aspect without another if they agree in temperament, and there is not for the letter Hā’ and every silent one other than the simple number and what branches out ﵀. And among its properties is that if it is written in a Chinese vessel that blood has not touched 600 times, and erased with almond water, and one who has palpitations drinks from it, it subsides. And it has an Arabic and Indian form; the Arabic is thus: خ, and the Indian: 600 ﵀. And among its properties is that if a square is placed and the Hā’ is made in it like a circle upon that square, and the numbers of the letters are brought down in it, and the coward carries it on his neck, his heart is strengthened and he becomes brave; and if it is hung upon a small child, he does not panic and does not cry, and it is a beneficial veil from jinn and mankind ﵀. And among its properties is that if it is engraved on a crystal bezel and mounted on a silver ring and hung upon one who has reached labor, she gives birth immediately. And whoever brings down the numbers of its numerical compound in a basin of red copper with a basil pen, with rose water and saffron, and writes around it the letter 600, and erases it with rain water, and gives it to one who has lūqa for 3 days, then he is cured, and this is its form: خ خ خ خ. And it has names by which it is invoked upon its works; you say: O God, I ask You by al-Khallāq, by al-Khāliq, yā Khāfiḍ, yā Khabīr, خ خ خ خ, yā Khafī al-luṭf, that You subjugate for me the servants of this letter in what You command them; indeed You are powerful over everything ﵀. And it is a speaking letter, indicating the sciences and wisdom, and it is attributed to Mercury, and its attribution is natural, agreeing with it in sense and meaning, and it is cold, moist, and everything that is in Mercury and among the motions and other than them is in the letter Dāl ﵀. And this letter has properties: whoever writes it four times upon a hot swelling or other than it, God removes it. And whoever writes its Indian form 67 upon a burn of fire, the pain of the burn and blistering do not harm him ﵀. And whoever brings down its numbers, and they are 30, in a square and writes in its corner the letter Dāl outside the wafq on a sheet of tin and carries it for one who has intestinal pain, it benefits him ﵀. And whoever writes it in the morning on a silver sheet known by mercury, at the hour of Mercury, and honors it and looks at it every day 4 times, and whenever he looks at it he asks God for the secrets placed in the letter Dāl that He grant him wisdom and what he desires of the sciences, then He grants him what he asked. And this is its form: د ٤٤. And its invocation: O God, I ask You by dā’im al-‘izz, yā dā al-jūd, by what You deposited in the letter Dāl of the hidden secrets د ٤٤ and the stored lights, that You subjugate for me Your angels, servants of this letter, in what He commanded them; indeed You are powerful over everything

---

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
