Arabic:
- ٢٠٧ -

ومن رسمها في خاتم في شرف الزهرة من فضة وحمله رزق الهيبة والمحبة والقبول وإذا تختم به من به
نزيف انقطع عنه وإذا جمع بين وفقه العددي والحرفي كان أسرع للإجابة وقال بعض الصالحين لما
بعث النبي عليه السلام وأنزل عليه كهيعص وكذلك يوحي إليك وإلى الذين من قبلك علمت أن في ذاك
من اللطيف فاتخذته وذريتي عند المخاوف والشدائد فرزقت ووقيت الخوف والشدائد وكان علي
يدعو بها في الشدائد يقول اللهم يا كهيعص يا كهيعص اغفر لي وارحمني وكان يقول لا يدعوه
أحدكم بهذا الاسم إلا استجيب له وقضيت حاجته وهذه صورته

[Grid content preserved as-is]
[Grid 1]

ومن جمع بين كهيعص وحمعسق في وفق معشر حرفي ويكون في شرف القمر في صحيفة فضة يرى
ما تعجز عنه الأوصاف وفيه سر بديع لقضاء الحوائج قدره قدر المغناطيس الأكبر والكبريت
الأحمر وهذه صفته كما ترى فافهم ترشد والله تعالى أعلم

[Grid content preserved as-is]
[Grid 2]

وهذا دعاؤه تقول بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم اللهم إني أسألك بكهيعص أن تكفني كل عظيم
وأن تصرف عني كذا وكذا يارب العالمين وما يناسب هذا لو وفق الخمس آيات وهي كأنه أنزله من
السماء فاختلط به نبات الأرض فأصبح هشيماً تذروه الرياح وكان الله على كل شيء مقتدراً هو الله الذي

English:
- 207 -

And whoever draws it in a ring in the exaltation of Venus, from silver, and carries it, is granted awe, love, and acceptance. And if one who has bleeding is sealed with it, it ceases from him. And if its numerical and literal accord are combined, it is quicker for response. And some of the righteous said: when the Prophet, peace be upon him, was sent and كهيعص was sent down upon him, likewise “Thus does He reveal to you and to those before you,” I knew that in that there is from the لطيف, so I took it, and my offspring, at times of fears and hardships, and I was provided for and protected from fear and hardships. And ʿAli used to supplicate with it in hardships, saying: O Allah, O كهيعص, O كهيعص, forgive me and have mercy on me. And he used to say: none of you calls upon Him by this name except that he is answered and his need is fulfilled. And this is its form.

[Grid content preserved as-is]
[Grid 1]

And whoever combines كهيعص and حمعسق in a lettered muwafaq of twenty, and it is in the exaltation of the moon in a silver tablet, sees what descriptions are عاجزة عنه. And in it is a wondrous secret for the fulfillment of needs, its measure being the measure of the greater magnet and the red sulfur. And this is its description as you see, so understand, you will be guided. And Allah تعالى knows best.

[Grid content preserved as-is]
[Grid 2]

And this is its supplication: you say, In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate. O Allah, I ask You by كهيعص that You suffice me against every great matter, and that You turn away from me such-and-such, O Lord of the worlds. And what is suitable for this is if the five verses are made into a muwafaq, and they are: “As though He had sent it down from the sky, and the vegetation of the earth became mixed with it, then it became dry stubble, scattered by the winds, and Allah is over everything powerful. He is Allah, the One

Indonesia:
[Bahasa Indonesia belum diterjemahkan]
